# Forest_Monitoring
This repository contains datasets used in the paper entitled "The Significance of Abiotic Factors in Oak Forest Decline: Findings from the Zagros Forests.”
Eight datasets are used in this paper. 
1) The oak decline dataset of the year 2015, which is uploaded here in Esri shapefile format. The coordinate system of the dataset is WGS 1984. It contains five polygons indicating five decline regions. The “Region” field shows the decline classes of each polygon. Less than 1% of oaks in Region One have declined. In Region Two, 1- 25% of trees are declined. In Region Three, 25 to 50 percent of oaks are declined. Region four has a decline percentage of 50-75%. In Region 5, 75% to 100% of oaks are declined. 
2) the elevation dataset is derived from the SRTM 90m Digital Elevation Model (DEM), available worldwide with a spatial resolution of 90 meters, and is available for free through the Google Earth Engine (GEE) platform. The access link is: https://developers.google.com/earth-engine/datasets/catalog/CGIAR_SRTM90_V4 
3) a topographic diversity dataset provides insight into the extent of ecological niches and microhabitats accessible to various species. The data was collected by Conservation Science Partners and is available for free through the Google Earth Engine (GEE) platform. The dataset provides global coverage at a spatial resolution of 270 meters. The access link is: https://developers.google.com/earth-engine/datasets/catalog/CSP_ERGo_1_0_Global_SRTM_topoDiversity 
4) the maximum and minimum temperatures used in this study were derived from TerraClimate, a dataset provided by the University of California Merced. This dataset employs climatologically assisted interpolation and combines high-resolution climatological normals from various sources, including the WorldClim dataset. The TerraClim dataset, available through GEE (Google Earth Engine), provides a global dataset with 768 monthly observations at a spatial resolution of 4638.3 meters. The access link of this dataset is: https://developers.google.com/earth-engine/datasets/catalog/IDAHO_EPSCOR_TERRACLIMATE 
5) the wind speed dataset from the University of California Merced covers 1958 to 2022 with a monthly temporal resolution. The dataset has a spatial resolution of 4638.3 meters. The access link of this dataset is: https://developers.google.com/earth-engine/datasets/catalog/IDAHO_EPSCOR_TERRACLIMATE 
6) monthly datasets of evapotranspiration and precipitation were provided by the University of California Merced from 1958 to 2022 at a spatial resolution of 4638.3 meters. The access link of this dataset is: https://developers.google.com/earth-engine/datasets/catalog/IDAHO_EPSCOR_TERRACLIMATE 
7) the Palmer Drought Severity Index (PDSI) dataset, which also comes from the University of California Merced with monthly temporal resolution. The PDSI has a spatial resolution of 4638.3 meters; the dataset provides global coverage of monthly values from 1958 to 2022.  The access link of this dataset is: https://developers.google.com/earth-engine/datasets/catalog/IDAHO_EPSCOR_TERRACLIMATE
8) the land use dataset of 2010 The dataset has a 1:25000 scale and is uploaded here. 
#Citation information
Please cite following papar when using Forest_Monitoring in your research.
Mehri, S., Alesheikh, A.A. & Lotfata, A. Abiotic factors impact on oak forest decline in Lorestan Province, Western Iran. Sci Rep 14, 3973 (2024). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-024-54551-6
